# Exercise 1: angular setup

## Install global cli

```bash
 npm i @angular/cli -g
```

Output
```bash
+ @angular/cli@13.3.0
added 1 package from 1 contributor and updated 2 packages in ...
```

## Create angular project

```bash
ng new ng-basic-ws
```

You will be asked if you want routing, select `n` for now.
Also, choose a stylesheet format. The choice doesn't change the outcome of this exercise

```bash
? Would you like to add Angular routing? No
? Which stylesheet format would you like to use? 
  CSS 
â¯ SCSS   [ https://sass-lang.com/documentation/syntax#scss                ] 
  Sass   [ https://sass-lang.com/documentation/syntax#the-indented-syntax ] 
  Less   [ http://lesscss.org                                             ] 

```

## Open Project in IDE

```bash
code ./ng-basic-ws
```

## serve application

```bash
ng serve
```

application will be served at `localhost:4200` as default

pro tip: you can let the cli open your browser on the served host:port pattern with the `-o` argument

```bash
ng serve -o
```

## say hello world

go `src/app/app.component.html` and change its contents.
watch the application being rebuilt automatically after you have
changed the code.

You can choose if you want to remove everything or just change slices of 
code.

e.g.

```html
My first angular application, great :)
```

## test

```bash
ng test
```

A browser should start and display outcome of the default karma tests

Depending on what you have changed in the template before, the test suite
will be either successful or unsuccessful.

Inspect the contents of `src/app/app.component.spec.ts`

change the contents any test case you find
note that the test suite will automatically re-run your tests

as a bonus you might even want to try to fix the test case if it's failing for you

## add a dependency

```bash
ng add @angular/material
```

## (update a dependency)

> for this to work we should add @angular/material@someVersion ? 

```bash
ng update @angular/material
```


## build

```bash
ng build
ng build --prod
```

## caching

You should notice that a directory `.angular/cache` was created.  
Please stop any running process before continuing.

Perform an `ng build --prod`

You should notice it runs quite fast

Now remove the `.angular.cache` folder completely and rebuild the application
with `ng build --prod`.

The process should be much slower compared to the run before.

